q - What is SDLC? Explain each phase of SDLC

Answer - The software development life cycle is a process that development teams use to create awesome software that's top-notch in terms of quality, cost-effectiveness, and time efficiency.This process is about creating a detailed plan to guide the development of the product and then breaking down the development process into smaller modules that can be assigned, completed, and measured to make the whole thing more manageable.


phase 1: Project Planning.:The first stage of SDLC is all about “What do we want?” Project planning is a vital role in the software    delivery lifecycle since this is the part where the team estimates the cost and defines the requirements of the new software.

phase 2: Gathering Requirements & Analysis.: The second step of SDLC is gathering maximum information from the client requirements for the product. Discuss each detail and specification of the product with the customer. The development team will then analyze the requirements keeping the design and code of the software in mind.

phase 3: Design.: the program developer scrutinizes whether the prepared software suffices all the requirements of the end-user. Additionally, if the project is feasible for the customer technologically, practically, and financially. Once the developer decides on the best design approach, he then selects the program languages like Oracle, Java, etc., that will suit the software.

phase 4: Coding or Implementation.: It means translating the design to a computer-legible language. In this fourth stage of SDLC, the tasks are divided into modules or units and assigned to various developers. The developers will then start building the entire system by writing code using the programming languages they chose. This stage is considered to be one of the longest in SDLC. The developers need certain predefined coding guidelines, and programming tools like interpreters, compilers, debugger to implement the code.

phase 5: Testing.:Once the developers build the software, then it is deployed in the testing environment. Then the testing team tests the functionality of the entire system. In this fifth phase of SDLC, the testing is done to ensure that the entire application works according to the customer requirements.

phase 6: Deployment.: The sixth phase of SDLC: Once the testing is done, and the product is ready for deployment, it is released for customers to use. The size of the project determines the complexity of the deployment. The users are then provided with the training or documentation that will help them to operate the software.  Again, a small round of testing is performed on production to ensure environmental issues or any impact of the new release.

phase 7: Maintenance.:The actual problem starts when the customer actually starts using the developed system and those needs to be solved from time to time. Maintenance is the seventh phase of SDLC where the developed product is taken care of. According to the changing user end environment or technology, the software is updated timely.
