q - What is SDLC? Explain each phase of SDLC

Answer - SDLC stands for "software development lifecycle" the cost-effective and time-efficient process that development teams
 use to design and build high-quality software. The goal of SDLC is to minimize project risks through forward planning so that 
 software meets customer expectations during production and beyond.

 - SDLC has 7 phase :

      phase 1 - Requirement gathering : information from the client requirements for the product. 
                Discuss each detail and specification of the product with the customer

      phase 2 - System designing : developer scrutinizes whether the prepared software suffices all the requirements of the end-user. 
                Additionally, if the project is feasible for the customer technologically, practically, and financially. 
                Once the developer decides on the best design approach, he then selects the program languages like Oracle, Java, etc.

      phase 3 - code implementation :  It means translating the design to a computer-legible language. In this fourth stage of SDLC, 
                the tasks are divided into modules or units and assigned to various developers. The developers will then start building the 
                entire system by writing code using the programming languages they chose

      phase 4 - testing : Once the developers build the software, then it is deployed in the testing environment. 
                Then the testing team tests the functionality of the entire system. In this fifth phase of SDLC, the testing is done to ensure
                that the entire application works according to the customer requirements.

      phase 5 - deployment : Once the testing is done, and the product is ready for deployment, it is released for customers to use.
                The size of the project determines the complexity of the deployment. The users are then provided with the training or documentation
                that will help them to operate the software.  Again, a small round of testing is performed on production to ensure environmental 
                issues or any impact of the new release.

      phase 6 - maintenance : The actual problem starts when the customer actually starts using the developed system and those needs to
                be solved from time to time. Maintenance is the seventh phase of SDLC where the developed product is taken care of. 
                According to the changing user end environment or technology, the software is updated timely.

      phase 7 - retirement : it means now the end of the task .